# Venmo Case Study

## Overview and Origin

* Venmo is a financial technology company that specializes in mobile online payments. The company was founded in 2009, and was later purchased by Paypal in 2012. The original creators of venmo are Andrew Kortina and Iqram Magdon-Ismail. They met as roommates in their freshman year at the University of Pennsylvania. The idea for Venmo originated from the concept of capturing a live song, and being able to sell it, and accept mobile payments. The name for this company came from the latin word “vendere” which means “to sell” and “mo” for mobile. The two college students aimed to create a name that could be used as a verb. Venmo was funded through 3 Funding rounds and within the seed round they had 10 investors. Venmo was able to raise $1.3 million during their funding stages, and later acquired for $26.2 million. This became a great invention due to the fact that Venmo uses the combination social media to take away the awkward tension of sending and receiving money. Adding a social media connection to Venmo also makes it easier to connect with your friends, and also makes it easier to trust where your money is going.

## Business Activities

Venmo has solved many problems within the financial industry, but the main issue they solved is being capable of sending money efficiently over the internet. Having the capability to efficiently and securely pay someone back without having to get cash from the ATM saves a lot of time. Venmo’s target audience is mainly aimed towards people who need to quickly send money or recieve money. The app is mainly geared towards the millennial demographic, due to the user needing to have knowledge of basic applications and social media. A solution that Venmo offers that its competitors cannot is that Venmo doesn't charge users to send or receive money. Some of the many technologies that Venmo uses are Java, Python, Javascript, C#, C++, React, Ruby on the Rails, PostgreSQL and more. Venmo is also powered by 2 different API’s. 

## Landscape
* Venmo is in the Payments and Billing domain of the financial industry. One major trend in the Payment and Billing sector that has changed over the last 5-10 years is that people are able to send payments using cryptocurrencies. Venmo adopted this feature of selling and accepting cryptocurrency payments in 2021. Some other competitors in this field could include Paypal, Zelle, Apple Pay, Google Pay, Cash App, and Western Union. Western Union’s business has plummeted due to the fact that people are able to effectively and efficiently send money without physically going to a Western Union location. Venmo has made it so easy to download their app, connect to your social media, and immediately be able to find who you are looking to interact with. 

## Results

* Throughout the past 10 years the online payment and billing industry has greatly expanded and keeps on growing. In 2021 the payment and billing industry was worth around $6.75 Trillion. Considering that in 2019 the Payment and billing industry was only worth $2 Trillion, we can expect this industry to keep expanding to meet our needs. The creation of Venmo has changed the way that people can exchange money. Using the social media connection on Venmo to pay people back and receive money has also created a sense of security for the user. Many business use core metrics to measure how they are performing in comparison to their competitors. Some of the core metrics in the Payment and billing domain that are used to measure success are acquisitions, activation, retention, and total revenue. In 2021 Venmo had a total revenue of $850 million, while on the other hand Paypal had a total revenue of $25.3 Billion, and Google Pay had a total revenue of $48 Billion in 2021. The retention rate that venmo obtained in 2021 was 11.32% while Zelle and Google Pay’s customer retention rates were respectively 25.83%, and 32%.In 2021 venmo had 52 million users utilizing their product. On the other hand, Paypal had 426 million people using their product, and Google Pay had around 100 million users in 2021.

## Recommendations

One service that Venmo should incorporate within their business is adding the option to purchase a stock on their own app or through another app like Robinhood. Venmo has already started towards the idea of creating this feature by being able to buy, sell, pay and receive cryptocurrency.  Adding this feature to Venmo would benefit the company because it would open up the door to the investment community to use the app more often. Venmo’s target audience would increase and the amount of transactions would increase as well. This would result in more revenue and would let Venmo stand aside from its competitors. One technology feature that I would add to this product is the ability to be able to send and receive payments on the web. Venmo is able to differ from its competitors because the feature of sending and receiving money is all done through the Venmo app. If Venmo offered a feature where users could send money on the web, it would add even more mobility in addition to people using their app. In conclusion Venmo has interrupted the old way in which people can send and receive money, and is adapting to people's needs through the use of technology. 
